Since you've volunteered to mentor, we'll assume you're willing to put a good chunk of time aside to help your mentees. However, everyone has other commitments throughout the week and cannot dedicate the same time the instructor does. Don't worry about it. Whatever time you give to your mentees will be helpful.

The first thing to do when mentoring is to decide upon your primary communication channels. RbMU has three major communication channels: IRC, mailing lists and university-web. Try to focus on one or two while mentoring so you don't overwhelm yourself. You should make yourself flexible so that you can help students who may use any of the communication channels; but by declaring up front the best way to contact you is for example the mailing list, you can hopefully get more students contacting you via your preferred method and will spend less time managing communications then mentoring.

## IRC

To successfully mentor students on IRC you're going to need to develop a plan. You should either declare office hours, much like and Instructor, or lurk throughout the day and have a good alert when someone pings you. Due to potential time differences between yourself and the students, it's not a good idea to make IRC your primary point of contact. One final tip regarding IRC. If you plan on being on IRC a lot, make sure to engage with the students, even when they're not asking for help. Ask them how it's going on an exercise, where they're from, etc. IRC can be a much more intimate setting for discussions than any of the other communication channels; so it is important to both take advantage of this, and be mindful of it as well.

## Mailing lists

Do to the courses asynchronous nature, the mailing often becomes the primary communications channel between everyone. It combines the threaded discussions and activity log of university-web with the more intimate nature of IRC. Mentoring on the mailing list isn't difficult, but here are some tips that have helped past mentors. First, use an email client that manages threads. This will help you follow a discussion much easier. Next, don't just hit reply and start typing. Pick and choose sections of the previous message(s) and comment on them one at a time. Everyone has already seen the prior messages, so there is no reason to include them in their entirety each time. Finally, anytime you see a request for review and you do not have time at that moment to review their code, you should mark that mail and come back to it later. In Gmail, you can mark all requests for review with a star, and once you've reviewed them, remove the star. By doing this, you can make sure not to miss anyones request.

## University-web

University-web is coming along, but can be one of the more daunting and difficult communication channels to mentor with. There are two major components that you will use, the Submissions and the Activity Log. The Submissions is where students propose their projects/assignments, request reviews from the instructor and on occasion, run discussions. It would be a daunting task if you were to try and look at all the submissions on a daily basis for updates, and that's where the Activity Log comes in. The Activity Log is just like it sounds, a listing of all the activity that has happened based on your current context. For example if you are at the root of a course, you'll see the activity for the entire course, if you're on a specific assignment you'll see the activity log for just that assignment. You can use the activity log to browse what has been occurring, and jump into the discussion as you feel appropriate. Some mentors treat this area as readonly, and only look through it the day of a checkpoint. Others comment on it almost exclusively, putting a message on the mailing list to check university-web when they've made a comment or done a review.
